The Joe Rogan experience.
When you were doing this,
he was just a local celebrity in the New York restaurant scene. Right. Had,
had no reservation started yet, or this was kitchen confidential. Yeah.
So kitchen confidential came out in 2000 mm-hmm <affirmative> so he was already
on the rise. I think he was, uh, a season or two into a Cook's tour,
which was the very first iteration of Tony on television mm-hmm <affirmative>
uh, but there was no, you know, he was always would say like,
I've got my 15 minutes. I have no expectation that this is gonna, you know,
last forever. I'm gonna do as much as I can while I can.
But I think he was always waiting for someone to pull the rug out from under
him. You know, I, I, as far as being a, a celebrity.
Whatever that is. Yeah. He was, it was really interesting. It was like, it's,
it's hard for people to realize that other people appreciate them.
I think mm-hmm, <affirmative> especially people that are genuinely humble in a,
like, he's a, he was a genuinely humble person. Mm-hmm <affirmative> like,
he really didn't buy into his own at all. Right.
So when you would talk to him about it, he was like,
this could then terribly at any moment, you know, mm-hmm <affirmative>.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> yeah. I remember being with him in the green room, uh,
he did a book tour for our,
the cookbook appetites that we wrote together in 2016.
And he did a series of lectures,
basically like a one hour standup routine. Yeah. Uh,
in these theater and then book signing.
So we were at the last one at bam in Brooklyn and uh, in the green room.
And he was just like, oh God, I hate this. I feel like such a,
what was the word? He used such a fraud. Yeah. You know, and I was like,
what are you talking about? You just had like 13 sold out shows.
The book is doing amazing. Like you're literally Tony Bordain. You was like,
yeah, it was it's. I just, it's all.
I'm I'm embarrassed that people have paid money to come and see me talk,
you know, it was really illustrative to me to,
to hear him talk like that, you know, to realize like he doesn't,
he doesn't think he's as great as we know he is.
You know, that's a common thing amongst, uh, Lee east,
my people amongst comedians, it's, it's, it's in many, um,
successful people it's called imposter syndrome.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and it exists because you have a certain sort of a set
perception of who you were just going through life sort of anonymously.
And then it radically changes and it doesn't feel real.
And so to other people who have just as covered you, they love your show.
They love your writing. They love your, your,
your take on the world as you travel and eat everywhere, you know,
you think like I'm the same idiot that I was, you know, he's,
he's probably thinking he's the same guy. He wasn't 95. And now here,
all these people love him. It doesn't make any sense.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I just feel like this is gonna fall apart. Does he fake?
Yeah.
But that's also why he was so interesting is because like the people that are
like legitimately full themselves and really think everything they're doing is
great are gross. Yeah. They're gross.
They come off gross when you see someone, right.
Like I'm the mm-hmm <affirmative>, you know,
like what mm-hmm <affirmative> like, that is so gross. Yeah.
And it's such the opposite of what anybody ever wants to hear, you know,
and maybe you could say it in jest and, you know, people think it's funny,
but for the most part,
the people that are really enamored with themselves and their work are just not
nearly as interesting as that people that are tortured by it.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>, mm-hmm, <affirmative>, it's, it's such a conundrum, right?
Mm it's. Like a guy like Tony, who is such an interesting,
fascinating person just to talk to, just to have a commun a conversation with,
because he had such a clear perspective on things, the way he looked at things,
he was very aesthetic. He had like very into, like, he had a,
he enjoyed certain style of communication and of hanging out
and like he had,
there was an art to just conversation with the guy mm-hmm <affirmative>.
So it's like, it makes sense that he hated himself. Yeah. You know,
in the most up way possible. It makes sense.
Yeah. I think too,
there was this disconnect between the guy that he was before he got famous and
the guy after, you know, and I think he always thought about how the guy,
the old guy probably would've made fun of the new guy, you know,
and or he would've, he, and all his, his buddies who were cook,
stuck in the kitchen would, would sort of hate this, you know,
guy with the expensive shoes and the nice apartment and flying first class, you.
Know? Yeah. That's what happens, you know, you,
you want to be punk rock and then all of a sudden you have a million dollars in
the bank and you're like, Hey.
Yeah, yeah.
I think I'm gonna eat it a nice place tonight. <laugh> mm-hmm, <affirmative>,
you know, I think I'm gonna, I think I'm gonna buy a watch, you know, it's it,
you really can feel like a fraud.
It's fascinating because so many people are really,
they ha did in a lot of ways by the past. And, you know,
there's sort of like this, uh, rebellious,
rigid attitude that you develop when you're struggling,
when you're coming up and, you know,
it becomes like the structure of where your attitude comes from mm-hmm
<affirmative> and then when that structure is sort of,
of by success in Tony's case, and then you're left with, okay,
I'm not even like in his eyes,
he had done all these hours of being in the kitchen. Right.
The real work those long days and long nights. And that's,
there was something noble about that mm-hmm <affirmative> right.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and then all of a sudden he's just going to visit these
guys and he is not in the game anymore. Mm-hmm <affirmative> and you know,
he's going to visit these incredible cooks and seeing these amazing dishes and
these insane restaurants. And I think part of that,
he felt like a little bit of a fraud because of that.
Yeah. Yeah.
He was always very careful to say I'm I was not a great chef. You know,
I think it's very people kind of just in the same way that people thought that,
you know, the whole, with the AI thing, that it was all of the,
the movie versus 45 seconds, there's just a,
a glossing over a kind of, uh, sloppiness of recollection. And so,
because he was a chef, everyone, you know, would say, oh,
he was the gr a great chef or a celebrity chef or a famous chef, you know?
And he was always really careful to say, I wasn't, you know, I was like,
I was good at leading a kitchen. I was good at getting food out on him,
but I was not in any way, a world famous creative chef. I was a leader of men,
you know, mm-hmm <affirmative> and there was, I think a lot of, uh,
I don't know, insecurity, but just a rec,
just a recognition that he wasn't the kind of chef, uh,
like Eric repair, his good friend or any of these guys that he really admired,
you know? And he wanted everyone to be, to know that he knew that too.
Yeah. That just the genuine humility mm-hmm <affirmative> about him.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> watch the entire episode for free only on Spotify.